Subject: Will you change the world today? (ECI pressrelease@leaf.com)
From: scott@ext-eml.com
Date: Fri, 03 Dec 1999 17:29:00 +0000
To: "sue nord",
    "susan m landwehr",
    "jeff dasovich",
    "marchris robinson",
    "lisa yoho",
    aleck


Thought you all would like to see this.....

----- Forwarded by Scott Bolton/Enron Communications on 12/03/99 09:26 AM 
-----

	Tom Gros
	Sent by: Michol Boyd
	12/03/99 08:50 AM
	Please respond to Tom Gros
		 
		 To: EC Employees -- All
		 cc: 
		 Subject: Will you change the world today? (ECI press release)

Will you change the world today?

On May 20 this year, we announced our intention to develop a liquid market to 
trade bandwidth globally, allowing transactions to close in seconds, not 
months.  That statement involved several challenges.  Technically, none of 
the hardware or software was in place to allow such unprecedented 
efficiency.  Culturally, the industry viewed the &network8 as the fiber that 
they owned and &prices8 as something that they controlled or numbers on an 
approved tariff sheet.  Respected consulting firms charged their clients for 
lists of reasons the market would never develop.  The industry,s leading 
market research group published an article about our proposal entitled Great 
Idea, Wrong Company.  One of our major competitors*an experienced trading 
firm*proclaimed that they knew markets, and that telecom capacity would never 
be a commodity market, as if that were something bad.  

We love it when people say it can,t be done.

Today, Enron transacted the first commodity bandwidth trade.  This is Day One 
of a potential trillion-dollar-a-year market.  Global Crossing was the 
counterparty to this first trade, and we expect to close a few more deals 
with other companies before the end of the year.

This is an outstanding accomplishment for a team and a firm that just seems 
to keep producing unbelievable innovations.

Can you think of any other firm that could have pulled this off?  I can,t.  
The range of talent required for such an accomplishment is mind boggling*
hardware engineering, software engineering, provisioning, property, legal, 
regulatory, trading, sales, credit, tax, accounting, risk controls--the list 
goes on and on.

We did it first because we were the only ones who could do it at all.  As a 
result, we will be able to offer our clients unique services that our 
competitors have not even dreamed of yet.  We will attract first a whole new 
generation of talent from top schools looking to work with the industry 
leader, not some dinosaur firm pointing to the way things have always been 
done.  We will learn first the lessons needed to have a flexible, global 
network with &infinite route miles8 without burdening our balance sheet.  We 
will implement first an efficient means to manage the perishable bandwidth 
that we own and operate, limiting the &spoilage8 of our physical assets.

Will you change the world today?  ECI,s response:  Been there.  Done that.

Congratulations and thanks to the team for a job well done.  Again.




